[{"id":"content:0.index.md","path":"/","dir":"","title":"Home","description":"","keywords":[],"body":"    The Bootcamp for Gaining Expertise in Kubernetes   The Kubernetes Mastery Bootcamp is a comprehensive, free training program that offers in-depth knowledge and hands-on experience in deploying, managing, and scaling containerized applications using Kubernetes. Participants will benefit from workshops, access to a sandbox environment for practical exercises, and training from industry experts.      5  Hands-on Explanation-based Kubernetes Labs  Dedicated Open Source   Kubernetes Sandbox  Dedicated Support From Kubernetes Experts  A Contibutor Level Access to Kubernetes Community Days 2024  Kubernetes Exam Voucher Worth 400$ -    Term & Conditions Applied  Linkedin Premium Voucher    Term & Conditions Applied       Please keep in mind   That you have to complete all the requirements as given in the form and submit the form before last date. In case of any misinformation, it may lead to disqualification from the Bootcamp perks. Also, only the top 2 will be selected for the voucher, and the top 3 will be selected for the LinkedIn Premium voucher. Please read the full Terms and Conditions here.    To access the mentioned Kubernetes Bootcamp benefits, please complete all requirements:      Join Slack   Join the CNCF Slack and stay updated with Kubernetes Trainings and Ask Questions from Kubernets Experts.   Join Here    Join Meetup   Join Meetup and stay updated with Kubernetes Workshops , Events & Trainings.   Join Here    Complete Workshop & Challenge   Complete Workshop lab using Kubernetes Free Sandbox , or alternative . To get started with guided hands-on labs ,   Click Here    Attending Kubernetes Community Days Lahore   To avail the perks, you have to join the Kubernetes Community Days to get yourself registered   Click Here    Share a word about Kubernetes Bootcamp & Kubernetes Community Days Lahore on social media   Sharing post and telling people about Kubernetes Community Days can increase your points and ranking    Fill the Google Form   After Completing all the above requirements , you have to fill the google form   Click Here"},{"id":"content:1.introduction:getting-started.md","path":"/introduction/getting-started","dir":"introduction","title":"Getting Started With Kubernetes Bootcamp","description":"Welcome to the Kubernetes Bootcamp, where you will embark on a journey to learn about Kubernetes through comprehensive topics and hands-on labs.","keywords":["What You Will Learn","Why Kubernetes?","Getting Started","Workshop Modules","Terms and Conditions","Ready to Start?"],"body":"  Getting Started With Kubernetes Bootcamp  Welcome to the Kubernetes Bootcamp, where you will embark on a journey to learn about Kubernetes through comprehensive topics and hands-on labs.  What You Will Learn  By the end of this bootcamp, you will have a solid understanding of what Kubernetes is and what it does. Specifically, you will learn how to:   Deploy, scale, update, and debug containerized applications on a Kubernetes cluster.  Utilize an interactive online terminal for real-world, practical application of your knowledge.  Why Kubernetes?  In today's digital landscape, users expect applications to be available 24/7, and developers are under pressure to deploy new versions of these applications multiple times a day. Kubernetes is designed to support this dynamic environment by enabling:    Continuous Deployment and Scaling : Release and update applications quickly and without downtime.   Efficient Resource Utilization : Intelligent scaling and resource management to meet user demand.   Reliability and Availability : Ensure that applications are always available to users.  Kubernetes combines Google's deep experience in running production loads at scale with the best-of-breed ideas and practices from the community.  Getting Started  Prerequisites  Before you begin, make sure you meet the following requirements:    GitHub Account : If you do not have a GitHub account, please   create a free account  before starting with the sandbox. This is essential for accessing the Kubernetes Sandbox environment.  Activate Your Kubernetes Sandbox  To dive into the hands-on experience with Kubernetes, activate your Kubernetes Sandbox using GitHub Codespaces by clicking the button below:  Kubernetes Sanbox  Workshop Modules  Throughout this bootcamp, you will complete the following modules:    Create a Cluster : Learn the basics of Kubernetes clusters and how to set one up.   Deploy an App : Deploy your first application on Kubernetes.   Explore Your App : Understand how to inspect and interact with your deployed application.   Expose Your App Publicly : Make your application accessible from the internet.   Scale Up Your App : Adjust your application's resources to handle increased traffic.   Update Your App : Safely roll out updates to your application.  Terms and Conditions  Before proceeding, please ensure you have read and agreed to the   workshop terms and conditions , including the proper use of resources and respectful behavior guidelines.  Ready to Start?  With everything set up and your understanding of the bootcamp structure, you're now ready to embark on your Kubernetes learning journey. Let's dive in and explore the powerful capabilities of Kubernetes together!"},{"id":"content:1.introduction:you-must-know.md","path":"/introduction/you-must-know","dir":"introduction","title":"Workshop Terms and Conditions and Usage Guidelines","description":"Before proceeding with the workshop, it is crucial that all participants read, understand, and agree to the following terms and conditions and usage guidelines. Your participation in this workshop indicates your acceptance of these terms.","keywords":["General Terms"],"body":"  Workshop Terms and Conditions and Usage Guidelines  Before proceeding with the workshop, it is crucial that all participants read, understand, and agree to the following terms and conditions and usage guidelines. Your participation in this workshop indicates your acceptance of these terms.  General Terms    Limited Vouchers : We have a limited number of vouchers available for this workshop. Only participants who are passionate and complete all the required tasks and activities will be officially contacted and eligible for these vouchers.   Proper Use of Resources :   Abuse of the Kubernetes sandbox, including but not limited to, using it for hosting a personal website, mining for cryptocurrency, or engaging in hacking activities, will result in immediate termination of your services.  Participants must agree to the GitHub Codespaces terms and conditions. In the event of your GitHub account or service being terminated, CNCF Lahore & Team will not be involved or responsible for resolving such issues.   Respectful Behavior :   All participants are expected to conduct themselves in a professional and respectful manner at all times. Harassment, bullying, or discrimination of any kind will not be tolerated.  Any reports of inappropriate behavior will be taken seriously and may result in immediate expulsion from the workshop.   Confidentiality :   Some information and materials provided during the workshop may be confidential or proprietary. Participants agree not to disclose such information without explicit permission."},{"id":"content:2.introduction-cluster:2.getting-started.md","path":"/introduction-cluster/getting-started","dir":"introduction-cluster","title":"Introduction to Kubernetes!","description":"","keywords":["What is Kubernetes?","Understanding the Kubernetes Cluster","Getting Started","Ready, Set, Go!"],"body":"  Introduction to Kubernetes!  What is Kubernetes?  Kubernetes, often abbreviated as K8s (with \"8\" representing the eight letters that are omitted), is an open-source platform designed to automate deploying, scaling, and operating application containers. It groups containers that make up an application into logical units for easy management and discovery. Kubernetes is built to run across a cluster of machines, providing a high level of availability.  Before you begin, make sure you meet the following requirements:    GitHub Account : If you do not have a GitHub account, please   create a free account  before starting with the sandbox. This is essential for accessing the Kubernetes Sandbox environment.  Activate Your Kubernetes Sandbox  To dive into the hands-on experience with Kubernetes, activate your Kubernetes Sandbox using GitHub Codespaces by clicking the button below:  Kubernetes Sanbox  Once the terminal is ready, please enter the following command so the Kubernetes cluster and node can be completely set up. For your knowledge, we have added a sample webpages.   Sit Back and Relax While Your Lab is Creating  As you embark on this journey, remember, setting up a Kubernetes cluster can take a few moments. So, please, sit back and relax while your lab environment is being prepared.  Understanding the Kubernetes Cluster  A Kubernetes cluster consists of two main components:    Master : The brain behind the operation, coordinating the cluster.   Nodes : The workers, running your applications.  Cluster Diagram    This diagram illustrates how the master and nodes interact within a Kubernetes cluster.  Dive Deeper into the Components  The Master  The master is responsible for managing the cluster. It makes decisions about where to run applications based on resource availability and other scheduling criteria. It also handles scaling and updates to ensure the cluster operates smoothly.  Nodes  A node can be a virtual or physical machine, serving as the workhorse that runs your applications. Each node has the necessary tools to manage container operations, such as Docker, and is managed by the master. Nodes communicate with the master via the Kubernetes API, which the master exposes.  Why Kubernetes?  Kubernetes abstracts the hardware infrastructure, allowing applications to run on any node within the cluster without needing to be tied to specific machines. This flexibility significantly simplifies deploying, managing, and scaling applications.  Getting Started  For development purposes,   minikube  is a recommended tool. It simplifies the process of setting up a Kubernetes cluster by creating a VM on your local machine that hosts a single-node cluster. Minikube supports Linux, macOS, and Windows, offering an accessible way to start with Kubernetes.   Guess what we are using MiniKube with GitHubCodespaces for Kubernetes Sandbox.  The Name \"Kubernetes\"  Originating from Greek, Kubernetes means \"helmsman\" or \"pilot,\" highlighting its role in guiding and managing containerized applications.  Ready, Set, Go!  Now that you have a basic understanding of Kubernetes and its components, it's time to dive into the practical side.  "}]